Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough - Sequential Hypothesis Testing Stop Criterion with “Enhanced Precision Is The Goal”

Hypothesis testing may come off as a dark art. On the one hand, data collection is expensive. On the other, small data sets may not yield enough statistical significance to draw meaningful conclusions. Combining these constraints with stakeholder requirements for quick answers from data makes the task of choosing the sample size stopping criterion a challenging balancing act.

This is especially true if the data is collected in a sequential manner, where a person, or an algorithm, needs to determine when to stop collecting data to satisfy the project requirements without introducing confirmation bias. This has the advantage of potentially reducing costs and time if a significant signal in the data is detected.

This poster is targeted to anyone involved in experimentation, technical or managerial, and is interested in improving how they plan an experiment budget and conduct post data collection interpretation. A basic understanding of statistics and hypothesis testing are nice-to-haves but not essential as I outline the basics.

In this poster you will learn why even though Bayesian approaches are more reliable than Frequentist ones for small data sets they do not magically solve the problem of confirmation bias in sequential hypothesis testing. This is done by introducing John Kruschke's “Precision is the Goal” method, where by determining in advance the experiment expected precision level yields unbiassed results. Additionally, I will introduce an improved new approach which enhances practical applications of "Precision is the Goal". Specifically, when the null hypothesis holds true, the original method is may lead to an inconclusive outcome. I show that this may be solved for by introducing slightly more conservative variant of this stop criterion.

---
Intended audience for the presentation
Anyone involved in experimentation, technical or managerial

---
Result: poster