🛑 Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough - Sequential Hypothesis Testing with Enhanced Precision is the Goal

In hypothesis testing the stopping criterion for data collection is a non-trivial question that puzzles many analysts. This is especially true with sequential testing where demands for quick results may lead to biassed ones.



I show how the belief that Bayesian approaches magically resolve this issue is misleading and how to obtain reliable outcomes by focusing on sample precision as a goal.

In particular introduce benefits of a novel approach called Enhanced Precision is the Goal.


Hypothesis testing may come off as a dark art. On the one hand, data collection is expensive. On the other, small data sets may not yield enough statistical significance to draw meaningful conclusions. Combining these constraints with stakeholder requirements for quick answers from data makes the task of choosing the sample size stopping criterion a challenging balancing act.


This is especially true if the data is collected in a sequential manner, where a person, or an algorithm, needs to determine when to stop collecting data to satisfy the project requirements without introducing confirmation bias. This has the advantage of potentially reducing costs and time if a significant signal is detected.


A basic understanding of hypothesis testing are nice-to-haves but not essential as I outline the basics.


In this presentation you will learn why even though Bayesian approaches are more reliable than Frequentist ones they do not magically solve the problem of confirmation bias in sequential hypothesis testing. This is done by introducing John Kruschke's Precision is the Goal method, where by determining in advance the experiment expected precision level yields unbiassed results.



Additionally, I introduce an improved new approach which enhances practical application. Specifically, the original method, in some circumstances may lead to an inconclusive outcome. I show that this may be solved for by introducing slightly more conservative variant of this stop criterion.