From https://rss.org.uk/RSS/media/File-library/Conference/Guidelines-for-submission-of-abstracts-RSS-2026.pdf

Guidelines for submissions of abstracts for RSS 2026 Conference
When submitting your abstract you will be asked to do the following:
• For contributed talks only - Select which one of the advertised conference streams your
presentation best fits into – please refer to the stream descriptions page for assistance -
although we accept there may be topics that cross streams you can only select one
• Provide a title for your presentation (please make this as self-explanatory as possible and
consider whether it makes your topic sound appealing so that people are encouraged to attend
your talk or view your poster)
• An abstract of up to 300 words – this should include your objectives, methods or models, and
results or conclusions as appropriate.
• Authors & their affiliations
• Your preference for type of presentation (see notes below)
• Intended audience – who will gain most from attending your talk/viewing your poster.
• Whether the presenting author is in the first 10 years of their career – this is to help ensure we
give younger presenters an opportunity to participate
• Whether the presenting author is a Chartered Statistician – this has no impact on review grade
• You are asked ‘Is your presentation of potential media or public interest? If yes, how, and to what
audiences? – this is to enable us to identify talks/posters that would potentially be of interest to
the media or the wider world in general. It does not affect the chances of the abstract being
selected for presentation.
Deadlines:
• First deadline – 8 April – last date for submission for contributed talks
• Second deadline – 7 May – last date for submission for rapid-fire talks
• Third deadline – 19 June – last possible date for submission for contributed posters
Notes:
1. Abstracts are graded by members of the RSS conference board on their individual merits, average grades
are calculated and then slots on the programme allocated in the order of overall grading (see exceptions
below). Decisions on abstracts submitted by the first deadline will be communicated by 20 May.
2. We normally receive far more abstracts for oral presentation than we can accommodate in the conference
programme so we will offer either a rapid-fire talk or a poster presentation as an alternative to those
abstracts for which talk slots cannot be provided.
3. We will not normally allocate 2 talk slots to the same presenter regardless of grading (however, it may be
possible to allocate a poster in addition to a talk)
4. There may be circumstances in which in order to create a balanced session on related topics that a lower
graded abstract is promoted at the expense of an abstract on another topic.
5. ALL presenters whose abstracts are accepted for presentation – whether for a talk or poster – are required
to respond to the acceptance email to confirm their participation. All presenters must complete their
registration with payment no later than 1 August or risk their presentation being removed from the
programme. Presenters must register for at least the day of their presentation. There are no discounts
or expenses available for contributed talk and poster presenters.
6. All contributed presentations are planned to take place in-person in Bournemouth.